## Introduction
Hypertension is a silent killer, you probably won't first experience any symptoms. It develops into a chronic illness over time, eventually causing symptoms including headaches and chest pain.
Regularly checking your blood pressure can protect you from heart illnesses.
The biggest cause of death in the US is cardiovascular disease. The number of deaths from heart disease grew by 4.8% in 2020, which is the highest increase since 2012.
A recurring relationship between cardiac problems and potentially catastrophic results is hypertension. Risk factors might be either modifiable (heavy alcohol consumption and an unhealthy lifestyle) or immutable (family history of hypertension). But one thing is certain: hypertension is typically an illness that may be avoided.
In order to acquire patient health data without unduly taxing hospitals and emergency rooms, remote patient monitoring (RPM) was developed. Our chronic patients' quality of life has considerably improved because to remote monitoring. Remote patient monitoring has today's opened doors to more digital health treatments, collaborating with insurers and billing firms to deliver more convenience to patients, as it brought continuity of care among patients with COVID-19

## Telemedicine in the management of high blood pressure
Over the previous two decades, as antihypertensive medication treatment became more widely accessible, the control rate of hypertension significantly rose in many nations. For instance, the knowledge, treatment, and control rates of hypertension were 46.9%, 40.7%, and 15.3%, respectively, in China, according to the most current nationwide hypertension survey conducted between 2012 and 2015 among 451 755 individuals (18 years). Nevertheless, China's control rate for treated hypertension patients (37.6%) and general community awareness levels both remained low.
Emerging technologies, like telemedicine, could be useful in populous nations like China. The Chinese government offers affordable antihypertensive drugs and health insurance. 6 The challenge is to promptly and thoroughly identify patients with increased blood pressure and to treat those who have been identified with hypertension effectively and aggressively. Telemedicine may be crucial for both diagnosis and therapy. Telemedicine technology has advanced quickly over the past 20 years, starting with blood pressure monitoring and moving on to combined monitoring and interventions and, more recently, interactive platforms between doctors and patients  (Hypertens(Greenwich), 2021).

## Blood pressure telemonitoring 
A cutting-edge area of telemonitoring or telemedicine research is home blood pressure monitoring. Researchers have been looking into the potential impacts of telemonitoring on blood pressure control ever since automated electronic blood pressure monitors became available for blood pressure measurement at home. In comparison to the usual care control group, telemonitoring using an automated telephone transmission system increased treatment adherence and blood pressure control by 4.7/4.4 mmHg of better clinic systolic/diastolic blood pressure reductions (P .02). The cost and intensity of antihypertensive medication increased as a result of home blood pressure monitoring. There was no difference in the risk of unfavorable events. Despite its diversity, home blood pressure telemonitoring equipment has been shown to be effective in managing hypertension. Because many people have a tendency to think that their blood pressure is normal, home blood pressure monitoring can help but is insufficient to increase public awareness of hypertension. Today, hundreds of individuals utilize the system every day in a variety of public locations, including airports, retail centers, and office buildings. It is envisaged that the system will significantly enhance the detection and management of hypertension in China after a sufficient number of blood pressure monitors have been implemented during the coming few years (Hypertens(Greenwich), 2021).  
